ADR 046 - Module Params (#10214)
cosmos/cosmos-sdk: docs/architecture/adr-046-module-params.md

> # ADR 046: Module Params

Reviewer: Should we use "Module Params" or "Module Parameters"?

parameters and any other state mutations necessary.

Note, it is up to developers to decide how to structure their parameters and
the respective `sdk.Msg` messages. Consider the parameters currently defined in
`x/auth` using the `x/params` module for parameter management:

```protobuf
message Params {
  uint64 max_memo_characters       = 1;
  uint64 tx_sig_limit              = 2;
  uint64 tx_size_cost_per_byte     = 3;
  uint64 sig_verify_cost_ed25519   = 4;
  uint64 sig_verify_cost_secp256k1 = 5;
}
```

Developers can choose to either create a unique data structure for every field in
`Params` or they can create a single `Params` structure as outlined above in the
case of `x/auth`.

In the former approach, a `sdk.Msg` would need to be created for every single
field along with a handler. This can become burdensome if there are a lot of
parameter fields. In the latter case, there is only a single data structure and
thus only a single message handler, however, the message handler might have to be
more sophisticated in that it might need to understand what parameters are being
changed vs what parameters are untouched.

> Once the `sdk.Msg` types and corresponding handlers are defined, proposals can
> be made using the `x/gov` module that are authorized by the root `x/gov`
> module's account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Params change proposals are made using the `x/gov` module. Execution is done through
`x/authz` authorization to the root `x/gov` module's account.
```

Continuing to use `x/auth`, we demonstrate a more complete example:

```go
type Params struct {
	MaxMemoCharacters      uint64
	TxSigLimit             uint64
	TxSizeCostPerByte      uint64
	SigVerifyCostED25519   uint64
	SigVerifyCostSecp256k1 uint64
}

type MsgUpdateParams struct {
	MaxMemoCharacters      uint64
	TxSigLimit             uint64
	TxSizeCostPerByte      uint64
	SigVerifyCostED25519   uint64
	SigVerifyCostSecp256k1 uint64

> }

Reviewer: The types above are the same. No need to duplicate.

Reviewer: We could use a convention that the method to update a params = params struct. So, below we would have:
```
func (ms msgServer) Params(goCtx context.Context, msg *types.MsgParams) (*types.MsgParamsResponse, error)
```

type MsgUpdateParamsResponse struct {}

func (ms msgServer) UpdateParams(goCtx context.Context, msg *types.MsgUpdateParams) (*types.MsgUpdateParamsResponse, error) {
  ctx := sdk.UnwrapSDKContext(goCtx)

  // verification logic...

  // persist params
  params := ParamsFromMsg(msg)
  ms.SaveParams(ctx, params)

  return &types.MsgUpdateParamsResponse{}, nil
}

func ParamsFromMsg(msg *types.MsgUpdateParams) Params {
  // ...
}

> ```

Reviewer: we should also add a Protobuf Query service method. Otherwise we are not able to query params.

## Consequences

As a result of implementing the module parameter methodology, we gain the ability
for module parameter changes to be stateful and extensible to fit nearly every

> application's use case. In addition, there will be significant gains in performance
> when it comes to reading and writing parameters from and to state, especially if
> a specific set of parameters are read on a consistent basis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
application's use case. We will be able to emit events (and trigger hooks registered 
to that events using the work proposed in [even hooks](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/discussions/9656))
as well as call other Msg service methods or perform additional migration (as long 
as it will be possible to execute in one transaction).
In addition, there will be significant gains in performance when it comes to reading 
and writing parameters from and to state, especially if a specific set of parameters 
are read on a consistent basis.
```

However, this methodology will require developers to implement more types and

> handlers which can become burdensome if many parameters exist. In addition,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Msg service metohds which can become burdensome if many parameters exist. In addition,
```

developers are required to implement persistance logics of module parameters.
However, this should be trivial.

### Backwards Compatibility

The new method for working with module parameters is naturally not backwards
compatible with the existing `x/params` module. However, the `x/params` will
remain in the Cosmos SDK and will be marked as deprecated with no additional
functionality being added apart from potential bug fixes. Note, the `x/params`
module may be removed entirely in a future release.

### Positive

- Module parameters are serialized more efficiently

> - Module parameters changes are able to be stateful

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Modules are able to react on parameters changes and perform additional actions.
- Special events can be emitted, allowing hooks to be triggered.
```

### Negative

> - Module parameter UX becomes slightly more burdensome for developers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Module parameters becomes slightly more burdensome for module developers:
```

    - Modules are now responsible for persisting and retrieving parameter state
    - Modules are now required to have unique message handlers to handle parameter

>       changes per unique parameter data structure.

Reviewer 2: So this effectively makes params no different than any other data in state: module devs manually define their their queries and state transitions.

Since params are such a common pattern, i wonder if there's a way to factorize this pattern, without going all the way into creating a `x/params` module.

Author: > So this effectively makes params no different than any other data in state: module devs manually define their their queries and state transitions.

Yes, correct. The main distinction is they're treated as an `sdk.Msg`.
